Attendees:
Bolin, Chastel, Denneau, Kleyna, Veres

Minutes:
* Telescope Status (KC)
No report
* IPP
  - IPP Trail fitting (PV)
Action PV: Send EAM TODO
  - Photometry (AF)
No report
  - Convolution (SC)
No report

* Data Processing (SC)
- RJW is admin czar
- Send an e-mail (1) to mopsadmin when chunks are made ready ; (2) to mopsczar when tracklet starts
- Reduce the mopsczar mailing-list to BB, PV, LD, RW, SC

* NEO Status (RW/PV)
- 15 items on the confirmation page
- ESS was good: 5 high-scorers in 20 minutes

* NEO Czaring (BB)
- Good so far in the current lunation
- Action SC: Add a "Czared" button telling the czars if somethign has been already czared
- Action SC: Add a Quiet NEO submission button

* Comets (JK)
- Nothing to report

* ATLAS (LD)
- Concerns with OpenOrb: "broken" since revision 2500
- ATLAS uses go (google language) to replace Perl/Python.

* AOB
 - OpenOrb: if we want to run a new version of OO, we need to tell explicitely how the new parameters/features will be used.

  - IASC/outreach (SC)
RW: score >= 15 czarable in mops
LD: boresight as close to ecliptic and opposition as possible
Action SC: Ask Burgett about what he wants to do if no OSS.w => 3pi, wait?

  - Split comet (BB): seems to be a main belt comet. Follow-up soon on cfht. More follow-up expected in late oct and mid dec period.

  - MOPS meetings (SC/RW): Thursdays 11am

